
# Assembler and Assembly

IMT2022554_IMT2022555_sorter.asm: This file contains MIPS assembly level code that sorts an array of inputs. It uses bubble sort logic.

IMT2022554_IMT2022555_assembler.py: It coverts the code snippet(bubble sort algorithm) present in "IMT2022554_IMT2022555_input.asm" from MIPS assembly code to machine code and stores it in "IMT2022554_IMT2022555_output.txt". 

machinecode: This file contains the machine code for "IMT2022554_IMT2022555_input.asm" generated by MARS (MIPS Assembler and Runtime Simulator).


## Documentation

[Documentation](https://github.com/Sreyas-J/MIPS_Assignment1/blob/main/IMT2022554_IMT2022555_report.pdf)


## Run Locally

Clone the project

```bash
  git clone git@github.com:Sreyas-J/MIPS_Assignment1.git
```

Go to the project directory

```bash
  cd MIPS_Assignment1
```

Use this command to run the Assembler

```bash
python IMT2022554_IMT2022555_assembler.py
```

Follow the steps below to run the MIPS assembly code.

Install dependencies

- Download the MIPS Assembler and Runtime Simulator (MARS) from the following link - https://courses.missouristate.edu/kenvollmar/mars/download.htm

- Prerequisite - JAVA SDK, you can download it from following link - https://www.oracle.com/in/java/technologies/downloads/

- Download instructions for MacBook users - After downloading the .jar file from the given link, open system settings -> Privacy & security - >Security -> On the dialogue box showing MARS4_5.jar is blocked click on open anyway.

- Download instructions for Windows & Ubuntu users - After downloading the .jar file from the given link, save the jar file in some folder. Open the Terminal in that folder. Open the terminal and use the BASH command java -jar Mars4_5.jar. or double click on the jar file to launch the simulator (for Windows users). 

- Now, go to file->open and choose "IMT2022554_IMT2022555_sorter.asm"

- Now click on run->assemble 
- Finally, run->Go 
- Provide the desired inputs.